# Project Write-Up 

## Project Overview

The purpose of this project is learn to work with the Twitter API and run a sentimental analysis on the current tragic events happening in Ukraine as a result of the Russia invasion that started last month. For this project, I utilize four different Python packages: *Twython*, *pprint*, *nltk*, and *matplotlib*. I utilize *Twython* to assist with pulling raw tweets directly from the Twitter API and *pprint* is used to display the Tweets in a readable notation in the output window. *NLTK* and *matplotlib* are used to perform the sentimental analysis itself and visualization of data respectively. I aim to not only use this project to practice the knowledge I have gain from class, but to also use this opportunity to learn more about the world and its current events. I have been curious about the situation in this war in Europe and I hope to use this project to gain a more complete understanding how whose sides the general public is on. 

## Project Implementation

To start the project off, I learn how to pull Tweets from the Twitter API in order to score them. The package *Twython* allows me to this with ease as it pulls raw tweets from the API using two parameters: a keyword or hashtag and the count of Tweets I want to pull. In the function that I build, I pull the first 1000 top tweets related to the keywords "#Zelenksy" and "#Putin" and store them into their own respective list. I manually read some of the tweets to confirm the results using *pprint*. Next, I build a function that iterates through these lists and use *nltk* to give a sentimental score for each Tweet and once again store them into its own respective list. Each score are stored in a dictionary with 4 self-explantory keys: "neutral", "negative" "positive", and "compound". 

The next function calculates the averages for all four components for the list of 1000 Tweets to provide data on the overall sentiment attached to each keyword. This is done by iterating through the list and adding up at the scores and then dividing the total scores by count of Tweets which is 1000. Next up, I build a fuction that creates a scatter plot of negative scores versus positive scores. This plot should be able to a give a visual of how the sentiments related to each keywork stack up. For example, if a lot of the Tweets hover around the origin, it means that it is mostly neutral. But if the tweets are high on the y-axis, it must be mostly negative and vice versa on the x-axis. 

One of the major pivot I perform in the project is to change the keywords I am examining. At first, I look at the keywords "#Ukrain" and "#Russia" as instinctly, I see them as the two sides of the war. However, I realize from looking at the sentiment scores that both keywords return very negative sentiments. A quick read through the actual Tweets show that the negativity for Russia comes from the backlash of the aggression, while the negativity for Ukraine stems from mostly people talking about the deaths and damage occuring in the country. I then decide that the outlook on the leaders of the country should more properly reflect on the sentiment Twitter users have on the two sides of the war. 

## Project Results

The results for this project reinforce some of my initial thoughts and expectations I had at the start of the project. While I am slightly surprise that the compound score for both keywords are negative, I have confirmed that Putin is getting a lot more negative sentiment on Twitter. For the keyword "#Zelensky", the function produces the following score: neutral = 0.84, negative = 0.099, positive = 0.059, and compound = -0.12. For the keyword "#Putin", the function produces the following score: neutral = 0.83, negative = 0.12, positive = 0.046, and compound = -0.23. I just want to point out that these are the current most Tweets and are also very American centric, therefore Twitter sentiment might not be most accurate data for these situations. Nonetheless, they do provide an interesting insight into the situation.

The scatter plots also provide very similar outlooks on the situation. *Figure 1* shows the clustering of Tweets related to "#Zelensky". The plot shows that most the Tweets lie right above the x-axis and further away from the y-axis, meaning that the tweets are mosting postive and have less negative sentiment. On the other hand, *Figure 2* shows the tweets related to "#Putin" where most of the tweets are closer to the y-axis and up further away from the x-axis, meaning that the tweets have more negative sentiment than positive ones. 

## Reflection

I have definitely learned a lot on this assignment. First of all, I had to rewrite this project write up because I did not know how to properly utilize Github so I definitely learned from that. Secondly, I gain a lot of interesting insights by working with real-time data and seeing the potential with APIs and natural language processing. This is definitely an area I would like to explore further in the future if I have the opportunity to. Most importantly though, I am just impressed at how much I have learned in this class and how I am able to extend these knowledge to work with such a currently impactful situation. However, there a few things I would to do more if I had more time. For example, I wish I could do more extensive visualizations and analysis on this topic. If I can create time series data for the sentiment, I could compare it to the media portrayal of the conflict to see how news affect sentiment. 